---
title: Who am I and what do I do here?
description: Developer, musician, electronics enthusiast, astronomy, radio and a bunch of other things...
author: henriquesebastiao
date: 2025-03-19 07:20:08 -0400
categories: [Vida]
image: /618c4d72-a733-47de-6bfa-73d9898fa800/public
pin: true
styles:
  - https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/devicon.min.css
  - /assets/css/about.css
scripts:
  - /assets/js/about.js
canonical_url: https://henriquesebastiao.com/about
---

## Hello! I'm Henrique Sebastião 👋

### Introduction

I am a back-end developer focused on [Python](https://www.python.org/), with 1 year and 8 months of experience and a Computer Science graduate. I use tools and frameworks such as [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) and [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/), PyTest, Docker, GIT, SQL databases, etc.
I always try to develop robust applications to solve the problems of the people around me.
In addition, I have between three and four years of experience with computer networks and Linux systems in my academic and professional life.

### A little context

I have been fascinated by the Universe since I was a child, so much so that during high school my dream was to become an astronomer. But as I reached adulthood, my goals gradually took shape, and I soon discovered a new fascination: technology. As a teenager, I always had contact with technological devices, if it wasn't a PC, it was some type of video game. I was just a user until then. In high school, when I was looking for areas in which I could train, I realized that I could not only be a user, but also create technological tools to help other users. That's when I decided to delve deeper into the world of technology, no longer being just a user, but also a professional in the field.

This is how my story began. Today I am studying for a degree in this area and I am constantly seeking to learn new technologies and tools. I focus on back-end development and I often try to learn technologies related to DevOps, which is also facilitated by my professional experience as a network technician and the use of Linux systems in my day-to-day work, since these skills are completely related.

As for the technical part, you can find more about me in the links below:

[Linkedin](/linkedin/){:target="_blank"}, [GitHub](/github/){:target="_blank"}, [Portifolio](/portifolio/) e [Curriculum](/curriculo/){:target="_blank"}.


On social media I am only present in [Mastodon](/mastodon/){:target="_blank"}.

Alternatively you can find all my links [here](/links/).

I occasionally write posts about development, networking, and technology in general on my [blog](/).

#### Other technologies and tools that I am familiar with:

- **PostgreSQL** - as SQL database.
- **HTML** and **CSS** - for front-end and using tools like Bootstrap and TailwindCSS.
- **Arduino** and **Micropython** - for development with microcontrollers such as ESP32, for example.
- **CI/CD** with **GitHub Actions** - for continuous integration, testing and automated deployment.
- **OpenTelemetry** - for application observability and telemetry.
- **Zabbix** - for application observability via SNMP protocol, widely used by ISPs[^isp].
- **MikroTik** - Mikrotik routers and servers with RouterOS.

<hr class="about">

<div id="tools"></div>

#### Notas de rodapé

[^isp]: Internet Service Provider